[opening theme song playing]
KOTARO LIVES ALONE
[car horn honking]
FOR THE SAKE OF FAMILY/
REASON FOR GOING OUT
-[indistinct chatter]
-[fun guitar music playing]
[girl chuckles] Thank you!
[man chuckles]
[man] That kid's
gotta want a balloon. Right?
He's been standing there
for the last five minutes.
Should I say something?
[Kotaro] Excuse me, sir. Is that safe?
Is what safe?
You just have so many balloons,
I am afeared you might fly away.
[chuckles] I'm fine.
Do you want a balloon yourself too?
What color do you want?
[Kotaro] It is irresponsible of this store
not to hire someone with more muscle
for this kind of work.
[man chuckles]
What color do you want?
[Kotaro] I understand
your very livelihood is on the line
if you do not distribute all of them.
Very well, then. I shall take one--
[man] What color do you want?
Well, red, blue, and, uh--
Oh, it's just one per person.
One per person?
All right.
I shall take the red one.
[grunts]
Hmm.
[indistinct chatter]
[Kotaro] I'd like a balloon, please.
Hey. Weren't you here before?
[Kotaro] Before?
What are you talking about?
[man] Didn't you get a balloon earlier?
[Kotaro] No, sir.
Was the little boy from before
wearing a cap like mine?
[man] Oh. He changed his outfit
to get past the one-per-person rule.
[chuckles] That's fine.
What color do you want?
Let's see.
I got red for my younger sister, so next
is a blue one for my younger brother.
[man] For his younger siblings, huh?
[sighs] He's a good kid.
I'd like a balloon.
[man] So now he's wearing sunglasses.
What color do you want?
Pink for my mom.
[man] Uh, For your mom?
Your mom really wants a balloon?
[Kotaro] Sir, are you saying
my mother's undeserving of a balloon?
[man] Uh, no.
[Kotaro] You should apologize
to the mothers of the world.
[man] I'm sorry.
-[whimsical music playing]
-[in an accent] How 'ya doing?
[man] Uh, now he's doing impressions.
I'd like one balloon, please.
What color do you want?
Uh…
[man] He just got one for his mom,
so I guess next is…
[Kotaro] Light blue for my father.
[man scoffs] Thought so.
Next one's gotta be for himself. Right?
Funny kid.
I wonder where his folks are.
I haven't seen anyone with him all day.
SHIMIZU APARTMENTS
[doorbell rings]
[Karino] What's with this?
My dear sir,
can you please draw faces on these?
One boy and one girl.
And also an adult man
and an adult lady's face, please.
Uh, I'm kind of working right now.
I need a skilled artist.
Well, if you insist.
KOTARO SATO
[cuckoo clock chiming]
[birds chirping]
[man] I wonder where that kid went
with all those balloons.
Hmm?
Hey. There he is.
He's by himself again.
He kept all those balloons
for himself? Really?
Did I get played…
FATHER - LITTLE BROTHER
MOTHER - LITTLE SISTER
[gasps]
[melancholy music playing]
[man] How long
do balloons usually last anyway?
I hope that those will last.
[lightly chuckles]
At lease a little while.
-[indistinct chatter]
-[Takuya] See ya, Kotaro! [laughs]
[Kotaro] Indeed. I will see you tomorrow.
[woman] Mai, Nana, your mom's here!
[both] Okay!
[woman] Kotaro!
Your ride is here too.
Let's go.
Aye.
I think it's really sweet
that your brother always comes
to pick you up afterschool.
[Karino] Brother?
[Kotaro] If you do not mind,
dear lady, we shall away.
Bye then. See you tomorrow!
[birds chirping]
[cell phone ringing]
Oh, great. It's my editor.
Hello, this is Karino. How may I help you?
Yes.
Wait. Now, now?
Uh-huh. Yes.
Okay. Thank you. I'll be there soon.
Do you need to go somewhere?
Yeah. I gotta go to work.
There goes my day.
[Kotaro] Is that so?
I'm sure he's just gonna rip it apart
like he always does.
The way he criticizes,
it's actually pretty hurtful.
Is that so? Well then,
I suppose I shall accompany you.
[Karino] What? No!
You better not come!
[beeping]
[whimsical music playing]
You wanted to see me, sir?
[man] Thanks for coming in.
Uh, sorry about him.
I told him not to come with me.
It's fine.
Huh. I didn't know you had a kid, Karino.
I am but his neighbor, good sir.
You may call me Kotaro Sato.
Oh… [chuckles dryly]
You brought your neighbor?
Whatever. Okay. Down to business, then.
Uh, yes.
[sighs]
Yep. Your drawings are still old school.
I'm not a fan. [chuckles dryly]
I tried drawing their features larger.
[chuckles dryly]
Hmm. I don't know.
I mean, just look at the one on this page.
I think this one
is actually quite well done.
Also, in this frame--
That one's fine. It's perfect!
Have you considered
you might be overthinking things?
[man] Overthinking things?
[chuckles dryly]
DRAWING NOTEBOOK
And do you have the creative prowess
to back up these criticisms
that you are making?
Here. Why don't you draw some--
Knock it off! Would you just be quiet?
I'm so sorry.
[chuckles dryly]
[chuckles nervously]
Can I excuse myself for a moment, please?
[man] Of course.
[door closes]
[Kotaro] Now that we are alone
may I request that you abate
your bullying of Sir Karino posthaste?
Huh.
I know I give him
some blunt feedback on his work,
but I never thought of it as bullying.
[sighs] I just have
high expectations of him.
If he worked on his drawing,
then he'd be great.
What are some of the things
you like about Sir Karino's work?
[man] I like…
[Kotaro] You continue to employ him.
There must be something you like.
His strength is definitely
his use of story structure,
but I think his drawings
are his weak point.
I believe he could be better
if he just tried more.
Rest assured,
what sounds like harsh feedback
is my way of helping Karino
grow into the artist I know he can be.
I see.
It's helping him grow.
[man] Looks like Karino
found his own bodyguard.
[chuckles dryly]
[soft guitar music playing]
Deep down, I think your editor
is likely a good person.
Huh?
You should give your best effort
to make him proud of you.
[Karino] What the heck happened
back there?
You know, you really didn't need
to follow me into work today.
Seriously… I mean,
you could've gotten me fired.
I was just trying to pay you back
for your many kindnesses.
[Karino] Pay me back?
Oh.
I shall stay by your side
and act as your champion.
Uh, I don't need that.
I'm a little too old for that anyway.
[Kotaro] Regardless,
I shall go along next time.
[Karino] Just do whatever you want.
[beeping]
[man] Hmm.
This isn't good.
I do agree. Not good at all.
[Karino] Huh? I thought he was on my side.
-[doorbell rings]
-[door opens]
ROAD TO BEING TRENDY/CHOOSING
[birds chirping]
Hello, Kotaro!
Uh, well, I guess you didn't come here
for a hug after all.
Of course not.
Now stand down,
or you will taste my blade.
I am here to request
that you accompany me on a shopping trip.
[Isamu] Is this a fashion magazine?
Kotaro, I didn't know
you were interested in the latest trends.
Indeed. It is my goal
to be popular and attractive.
[Isamu] Aw. He must have a crush
on someone at school.
-Great! To the mall we go.
-[twinkling]
[Kotaro] I appreciate this.
[calm music playing]
Hey, uh, Kotaro.
Do you really think it's necessary
to keep pointing that sword at me?
I thought we were friends now.
We are acquaintances at best,
so I must keep my guard up.
[girls gasping]
[rustling]
[Isamu] Kotaro.
Are you sure you don't need my help
putting anything on?
[Kotaro struggling] Thank you, but no.
Fine. So tell me about the girl.
Uh, what girl is that?
[Isamu] The one you have a crush on.
Is she in your class?
What?
Don't play dumb. I won't tell anyone.
I do not have a crush on anyone.
I would appreciate some privacy.
-Come on. We're friends. You can tell me.
-[footsteps approaching]
[man] Could I have a word with you, sir?
-Huh? What do you want?
-[girls gasping]
Customers have been complaining
about a man lurking
outside of the dressing rooms.
-[Isamu growls] Huh?
-[Kotaro] Sir Tamaru.
-How do I look?
-[cute music playing]
-Do you like it?
-[twinkling]
[gasps] You look so cute!
I see.
[Isamu] Hmm?
[Kotaro] Excuse me, sir.
Do you think I look cool?
Huh? Yeah. I think you look real cool.
[Kotaro] And you, madam.
Would you say that I am good-looking?
You're adorable.
[Kotaro] And you, young sir.
Do I look like a ladies man?
[boy] Yeah. Looking good.
[Isamu] He's asking everyone, eh?
Maybe it's not a crush.
[train horn blaring]
Sir Tamaru, you have my sincerest thanks!
Today's adventure was truly a success.
I'm happy to help you
anytime you need me.
How about next time
we get matching leopard-print--
-Not a chance.
-Uh…
Aye. Now I shall
be among the popular citizens.
Who exactly are you trying to impress
with all of this anyway?
Everyone, of course.
I wish to impress everyone.
I heard on the TV
that stylish gentlemen are more popular
and, therefore, have more friends.
Oh.
Hmm.
[Kotaro] When everyone is your friend
it means that no one
will ever hate you again.
-[woman] Does he live around here?
-[Isamu] Hmm?
[woman 2] This neighborhood isn't safe
with thugs like him wandering around.
[Isamu scoffs]
[Isamu grunts]
[Kotaro] Approach no further!
Does the thought of being hated
by other people bother you that much?
[emotional music playing]
[Kotaro] Aye.
[woman] He's such a creeper.
[woman 2] Seriously.
[Isamu] Listen to me, Kotaro.
Closed-minded people
always hate what they don't understand.
Whether you're stylish or not.
Is that the truth?
[Isamu] Yep.
And you know what?
Even if you're not
the most stylish kid out there,
I'm still your friend.
[footsteps approaching]
[officer] Excuse me, sir.
May I have a word?
Huh?
What is the nature
of your relationship with this child?
You certainly don't look like his father.
Everyone's out to get me today.
I'm gonna need to see some ID, sir.
Sir Tamaru
does not deserve this treatment!
He is my friend!
He has done no wrong!
This guy? He's your friend?
[Kotaro] Indeed.
We spent the day shopping together.
[Isamu] Kotaro!
-[giggling]
-I let my guard down.
Un… unhand me!
[indistinct chatter]
[girls laughing]
Thank you so much for selecting me.
I'm Mik-- [gasps]
[whimsical music playing]
[Mizuki] Kotaro? What are you doing here?
Good evening, Lady Mizuki.
I have come here
with the intention of selecting you.
Select?
[gasps]
Karino needs
to come pick you up right now.
-You cannot be here.
-[man laughing] Right?
[doorbell chimes]
Okay, then…
Sorry about that. I…
Aye. A hero is strong
and always kind to people.
-He is so cute!
-[twinkling]
He gave me ten yen
to watch him do impressions.
How adorable!
[man] I could just eat him up! [giggles]
[Mizuki] They like him.
-[doorbell chimes]
-[footsteps approaching]
-[panting]
-[door closes]
Now you're following Mizuki to work too?
Welcome, good sir.
May I offer you something?
I would highly recommend the whole milk.
It is rich and delicious.
[groans]
[Karino] Okay, enough. Time to go home.
[man] Sir,
aren't you forgetting something?
Uh…
You need to pay
for that kid's selection fee,
milk, and the entrance fee for you both.
[Karino] What? Me?
Uh, sure.
Dammit!
You had better pay me back later!
[Mizuki] What's gotten into Kotaro lately?
[paper rustling]
[Mizuki] Thanks so much for choosing me!
-I'm Miki.
-[whimsical music playing]
Lady Mizuki, may I ask who this "Miki"
person is that you speak of?
Oh, uh,
Miki is the name
that I go by while I'm working.
Interesting.
Listen. I think it's sweet
that you wanna hang out with me,
but I really don't think
you should be coming to a place like this.
Would it be better
if I was accompanied by Sir Karino?
[Mizuki] That's not really the issue.
Well, my coming here and selecting you
means that I get
the pleasure of your company.
[chuckles nervously]
You really are charming,
but the two of us live
in the same building.
So we can hang out whenever you want.
Why, didn't we just have snacks
the other day?
[both slurping]
[chewing] It's good. Isn't it?
[chewing] Yes. Quite stretchy.
Kotaro, want a refill on your tea?
Mm-hmm. That sounds wonderful.
[cell phone ringing]
The landlord's calling.
Give me a second. Okay?
Oh, hello.
Uh, yeah. I guess so.
Mmm. Stretchy food is my favorite.
[Mizuki] I need to think about it
for a little longer.
Okay. Thank you!
[Mizuki sighs heavily] What should I do?
[Kotaro] May I ask what that was about?
[Mizuki] My lease is up on the apartment.
Are you going to leave?
I've lived here for quite a while now.
Maybe it's time for something new.
[cup clattering]
[water pouring]
[Mizuki] Oh, what am I saying?
Now that you're here, I can't move.
I'd be way too lonely without you.
So, guess I'm renewing my lease.
Huh? He left?
[Kotaro] Subsequently,
I consulted with Sir Karino.
You wanna figure out
how to spend more time with Mizuki?
Mm-hmm.
I'm not really sure,
but if it were me,
I'd try going to the club where she works.
And then I would just select Mizuki.
Select?
[girls giggling]
[Kotaro] Lady Mizuki,
if I come here and select you every day,
does that mean you will be able
to stay with me forever?
[emotional music playing]
[sighs]
Hey, Kotaro.
Let's try this again, shall we?
Thank you for selecting me.
My name's…
"Mizuki."
Don't worry,
because I select you too, Kotaro.
So, we'll be together from now on.
-[light thud]
-[gasps]
[sighs]
Not again. [panting]
[door closes]
Don't worry about it.
Today's a special day, so it's my treat!
What do you say? Huh?
S-seriously?
You are quite generous.
-Man, you are really cute.
-Oh, stop it!
You're making me blush.
I would say that the lady in yellow
is one of the most stunning creatures
I have seen.
I mean, she's fine,
but I'd prefer the maiden
with the ample bosom.
Excuse me!
[cute music playing]
[Mizuki] Hey, Kotaro.
Come take a selfie with me.
Selfie?
Yeah! A picture of you and me
to remember
our perfect little picnic date.
[Kotaro] I don't know.
Hey, Mizuki.
Would you like an ice cream cone?
Hello?
While I appreciate the ice cream,
you know
you weren't actually invited, Karino.
Interloper.
[Karino] Wow.
You don't have to say it like that.
You're supposed to eat it,
not rub it all over your face.
Hmm?
[Mizuki giggling] How'd you get ice cream
all over your face?
You're so cute!
Oh, hold on. Now don't move. Okay?
Hey, let me take one too.
Hmm?
[cell phone chimes]
Could you stand still
so we can take a picture of you?
[Kotaro grunting] Stop what you are doing!
You must calm yourself immediately!
You're the one that needs to calm down.
I am ill-disposed
to having my picture taken!
Aw. He won't even take one with me?
-[Kotaro] Apologies.
-Just let me take your picture!
Yeah. Come on.
I must away!
[Mizuki and Karino grunting, panting]
[breathing heavily] Forget it. I give up.
Fine. Then more pictures for me, Karino.
I'm never gonna give up. You'll see.
It is futile! [panting]
[giggling] Come back!
[Karino] I envy her energy.
You need to draw your women and children
much cuter than this.
[laughs dryly]
-[Karino] Oh. Huh.
-[Mizuki] Come on! [laughs]
Wait for me, Kotaro!
All that, and not a single good picture.
Indeed. You were no match for me.
The clearest one I got
was the back of your head.
Oh well.
I'm gonna send it to my friend anyway.
Aye. It is fine
as long as it is not my face.
That reminds me.
You hid your face during the group photo
for the ceremony too.
Are you afraid
of having your picture taken or something?
I told you.
I am ill-disposed
to having anyone take pictures of me.
[birds chirping]
-[tense music playing]
-I want him out here right this second!
He's my son!
[woman] I'm sorry, sir, but I can't.
[Kotaro's father]
I saw his picture on your website.
-I know he's here!
-[boy] I guess he's someone's dad?
-[objects banging]
-He's kind of scary.
-I hope he leaves soon.
-[indistinct yelling]
[boy] He is crazy.
-[woman screams]
-[Kotaro's father] Get him out here!
[alarm beeping]
I must not ever have pictures taken of me.
No matter how happy the memory may be.
[birds chirping]
-[Karino] Here.
-What is this?
[Karino] Since we couldn't
get a good picture yesterday…
-I gave one to Mizuki too.
-[Kotaro grunts]
Uh…
[joyful music playing]
[gasps]
[Kotaro] It is stunning.
Oh, yeah? You like it?
[Kotaro] It needs some work,
but it is good.
Uh… You little…
May I request
that you color this in for me later?
[Karino] Sure. Fine.
And speaking of, it might be nice
to hang out with Mizuki again.
[Kotaro] First,
you need to practice your drawing.
[Karino grunts]
[man] Kobayashi!
[woman] Yes. Can I help you, sir?
Starting today,
this will be your new assignment.
Every week you'll deliver money
to the resident living at that address.
Huh?
It has to be hand-delivered?
Can't we just wire them the money?
[man] This resident
doesn't have a bank account.
That's pretty rare this day and age.
This must be a joke.
Is this even a lawyer's job?
I'm not just an errand--
This assignment
comes straight from the top.
Fine. I'll go.
[man] Oh, and Kobayashi…
[Kobayashi inhales deeply]
[exhales]
[birds chirping]
-[Kobayashi] Okay.
-[doorbell rings]
[Kotaro] Thank you so much for coming!
[whimsical music playing]
Uh…
N-nice to meet you!
The honor is mine.
You must be the new person
in charge of my account.
Please come inside for a cup of tea.
Thanks! I'd enjoy that very much!
They said he was a child,
but I didn't think he'd be this young.
[Kotaro] Let us toast to new beginnings.
Cheers!
[Kobayashi] Ch-cheers!
[Kotaro gulping]
How rude.
I did not even think
to ask your name, dear lady.
Oh! I am Ayano Kobayashi!
I see.
Well, Lady Kobayashi,
I shall now perform
my favorite song for you.
Uh…
Lend me your ear.
Here is the opening theme song
for Tonosaman,
"You, too, can be Tonosaman!"
[Ayano yells happily]
I've been waiting for this!
I even brought a tambourine!
Let us rock. [clears throat]
-[Tonosaman theme song playing]
-Tonosaman…
-[Kotaro vocalizing]
-[tambourine shaking]
Did you enjoy the performance, dear lady?
[Ayano] It was so good! [clapping]
Woohoo!
-I am pleased to hear that.
-[alarm beeping]
[Kotaro] Ah, yes. The party cannot begin
without tandoori chicken.
Pardon me.
I shall prepare a plate for you.
Tandoori chicken?
Here's your allowance for this week.
[Kotaro] Apologies for the inconvenience.
And this is a little something
for your trouble.
A present?
Are you sure? Thank you!
No need.
It is the least I can do to thank you
for the generous use of your time.
May I ask you something?
Where did this allowance come from?
[Ayano grunts]
[man] Oh, and Kobayashi?
When you get there,
he'll throw you a welcome party.
so just make sure you play along.
Huh?
He's going to sing you a song.
Here. Bring this tambourine.
I'm, uh, just there
to deliver him the money. Right?
[man] When he asks
where the money comes from,
tell him it's a donation
from a generous person.
[Ayano] Where does it actually come from?
The money comes
from his mother's life insurance.
Life insurance?
Then does that mean she's…
Poor kid has no idea…
[emotional music playing]
It's a gift from a very generous donor.
Aye.
Your predecessor
would always tell me the exact same thing.
They also said it would be impossible
for me to ever meet that person.
Since I cannot meet my benefactor,
I shall be generous to all of you.
Do you think that my generosity
would be able
to reach that person through you?
[Ayano] I… [sighs]
I do.
[bird calling]
[footsteps approaching]
Uh…
Are you checking up on me?
Guess I was a little worried about you.
So, were you able to give him the money?
Yeah, but to be honest,
I feel really bad for him.
I know.
So do you think
that there will ever be a day
when we'll be able
to tell him the truth about the money?
[man] Did you look at your gift yet?
-[bag rustling]
-[Ayano] It's a candy bar and…
What am I looking at?
It's a week's worth
of that kid's journal entries.
-[gasps]
-He gives us a new volume every time.
I wonder, sometimes, how much
he actually knows about the money,
and why he gives these to us.
[Ayano sighs]
[sobs]
Hang on!
I wanna be the one
to take on this assignment going forward.
Okay.
[Ayano grunts]
[man] I'm counting on you.
[music fades]
[ending theme song playing]
Subtitle translation by: Paul Koehler